All right let's go ahead and kick off this Android Wear section by talking about what it is Android
Wear is a series of smartwatches that run a special version of Android called Android Wear.
How crazy is that.
Now we have watches that have operating systems on them.
Blows my mind.
I just think it's insane.
But anyways Android where you can run apps on them that's what we're going to be creating.
Of course you can tell time so Android has their own stuff baked in but we can make apps that people
can use.
So you'll notice from this that there's different kinds of watches some that have a round face and then
some that have a square face.
I will say from all the promo material round seems to be the more popular one like as we scroll through
all these devices just round round round round.
And even as we come down here and we're looking at all these different watches like round round round
round round and eventually Oh look there's one square one round round round round round round round
and then oh there's another square one.
So those are the two different types of watch faces that we can create.
But you know we're going to talk about how to create both of them.
It's not too different between the two but there are some differences and we'll we'll dive into that.
But let's go ahead and start a new project I want to just create sort of a hello world application to
get started and learn about Android Wear So go ahead make a new project call it whatever you want to
call mine Android where demo and we'll go ahead and hit next now on this screen this is where we got
to pay attention.
We don't want the phone and tablet we want the where selected to say hey this is what we're trying to
create.
Then you can choose your API level.
I'm going to go with API 23 Android 6.0.
You can decide whichever one you want.
Well I would go higher than this if you want to select a different version.
I wouldn't go lower than this but at least have API 23 there.
And we'll go ahead and hit Next choose where you want to start.
I think we just want a blank where activity we're trying to do hello world and the default main activity
that's fine will go ahead and run with that.
And that's one thing that I'd like to emphasize here is that you're not going to see too big of a difference
between these Android Ware projects and your own projects like they have activities we can put things
like text views on them.
It's really quite amazing how similar the two are and obviously there's differences but there is a lot
of similarities there.
Now in order to get this started if we're going to test out the watch this you know app that we're making
we're going to have to have a device to simulate Adlon.
So go ahead and move up to the top here.
We want to go to Tools Android HVD manager.
This is where we manage all our virtual devices.
So if we go here we have some devices that we created before but we want to do a new one and go ahead
and select where here on the left side and there's a couple of different options here.
So we have you know a square one.
We have some round ones over here I want to see what the name is.
Oh the round with a chin.
So let's go ahead and make both a square and a round one and let's start first with the square.
So we'll select square hit next.
And looks like we're going to have to pick one of these systems to download.
So let's just go for the latest and greatest.
Let's do Orio.
I don't think I want the China version so I'll select this one.
We'll go ahead and grab that.
All right so just have to wait a second here for this to download.
So now that that's finished I'm going to go ahead and select Orio here say next.
And I'm just going to do all the defaults for this and I'll go ahead and say finish.
OK so this is going to make our square device which we want to test on.
And well I think it is.
We go that kind of bugged me for a second but let's go ahead and make a round once or when we go back
to HVD manager Scott R-squared device there.
But let's also go to wear and do this round on here so you can choose whether you get the Chinen or
not.
So the chin just kind of has this flat piece at the bottom.
But let's just go ahead and go for the full round on here so we'll select that.
And again I'm going to pick that same Oreo that we had just downloaded and we'll hit finish there.
OK.
So with these two we just want to see that we can at least get a hello world to show up and the Android
studio project that we've got actually comes with everything ready to rock and roll here so let's go
ahead and run our app and let's pick a device let's maybe start first with round go ahead and hit OK
that's going to take a second to load up here.
So while that's going let me just go ahead and walk you through what a project looks like here.
So there comes the emulator popping up now something is going to look really familiar like there's an
android manifests.
You know looks very similar to what we had before with our other apps.
If we go into Java there's a main activity you're like oh OK there's a main activity in here.
Someone has a text view the way that we grab that still just fine view by ID.
That seems just like what we've done before.
But also if we go down to lay out we have this main activity.
And so you can see down here we've got a string showing up that says Hello square world.
OK.
So that's showing up there and we're going to want to make sure that this can work on both square and
round.
We're going to talk about how to do that in a second.
But you know we've got all our different pieces here it's pretty similar to what we had before obviously
a few differences and it's a real shame that the layout out here doesn't show you what it would look
like on the actual device but what are you going to do.
So let's go ahead and give this one more moment here to finish running its course.
All right.
So we finally got that to show up and look we have this nice halo round world and you might be scratching
your head for a second saying hey what the heck are string here said.
Hello squared world.
Why is that saying hello round world on the round one like how does it know what I'm going to talk about
that.
But because it takes so long to get these emulators up and running.
Let's stop the one that we have now.
Let's hit run again and let's change it now to the squared device so we can see what that looks like.
We just want to confirm that this is working in both scenarios.
So with this text view that we have here we go ahead and click back you can see that with the string
it has this at string in front which means the actual value for the string is stored in a separate file
which we can find in values here.
And if you go to strings not ex-MIL there's two different versions so one is just a regular But then
one says round so the round one this gets loaded when it's running on a round Android Wear device and
then the square one gets run when it's running on a square.
So you can see for the square one we have hello square world.
And on the round one we have hello round world.
So that's the way that it's able to sort of differentiate between the two and the real goal with Android
where as far as you know the two devices goes the round in the square is that they want to make it easy
as possible so that when you build an app that you don't have to you know do one complete app for square
one and a whole separate one for the round one like they're practically the same shape.
There are some differences between the two and they're going to allow you to design and write code for
that too.
But you know as much as you can make them both the same it's going to save you a ton of time as a developer.
And look at that the square watch opened up and we have Halo square world.
OK.
So this is a great place for us to start we're now going to move on to talking about the two different
watch faces the square in the round and how we can work with them.
So let's go ahead and dive into that.